---
title: "Week Four Preparation"
date: 2023-02-21
---

In the fourth week of my Java preperation, I have covered few concepts of Object Oriented Programming such as Encapsulation, Getters and Setters, and Inheritance. 

## ENCAPSULATION ##

  In simple words, Encapsulation is wrapping up of data under single unit. It binds together the code and data it manipulates. The variables are declared private and hidden from other classes and they can be accessed through member function() of its own class in which they are declared. Encapsulation can be acheived by declaring all the variables in the class as private and writing public methods in the class to set and get values of a variable. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/encapsulation.java) program with and without Encapsulation. 
  
  In the example program with Encapsulation, we can see that the variables are declared as private and member function() as public so that the public methods will be visible outside, using which we can set values for the variables. The public methods which are used outside the class to set values for private variables are known as **Getters and Setters**. Getters get the values and Setters set the values. When we return the value, for instance <code> return name;</code> in getname() method, and call the method somewhere else, the value which is assigned to the variable 'name' goes to where we call the getname() method. For instance, <code> System.out.println(getname());</code>, the value of the name will be returned and printed with the help of print statement. Getters and Setters is quite unfamiliar to me so it was a bit challenging to use getters and setters in the begining but  after practicing few programs, I was able to work with getters and setters. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Getter_setter.java) program of getters and setters which I have practiced.
  
## INHERITANCE ##

  The process of inheriting the features of super class into sub class is known as Inheritance. Inheritance supports the concept of **reusability** i.e when we want to create a new class and someother class already includes the code we wanna use in our class, we can derive the new class from existing class and the keyword is ***extends***. By using Inheritance, we are reusing the fields and methods of base class. The relationship between the two classes is ***is a*** which is ***parent-child*** relationship. The answer to the question ***Why use Inheritance in Java?*** is ***code reusability***.
 
Syntax:
<code>
  class derived_class extends base_class{
  // methods and fields
  }
 </code>
  
   Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Inheritance.java) of Inheritance in Java. There are three types of Inheritance in Java. Single Inheritance, Multilevel Inheritance and Hierarchial Inheritance. Note that Multiple Inheritance is not supported in java through class. When a class inherits another class, it is known as single inheritance. When a class entends a class which extends another class, it is known as Multilevel Inheritance. When two or more classes inherits the same class, it is known as Hierarchial Inheritance. Here is an example program of [Multilevel Inheritance](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/multilevel.java) and [Hierarchial Inheritance](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/hierarchial.java). In the following week, I will explore more about the concept of ***Inheritance***.
   
