---
title: "Fifth week preparation"
date: 2023-03-01
---

In the fifth week of my Java preperation, I have studied concepts such as Super keyword, Instanceof(), Aggeregation and Method Overriding(Polymorphism). While studying these concepts, I have practiced few programs related to these concepts parallely. In this blog, I will provide a brief overview of what I have studied this week.

## Super ##
  
  Super keyword is used to call superclass methods and access the superclass's constructor. If both variable names in superclass and subclass are same, super is used to refer to the variable in superclass. Super can be used to invoke the parent class method. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Super_method.java) program of how to invoke parent class method using super. Super can also be used to invoke parent class constructor. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/super_constructor.java) program of how to invoke parent class constructor using super. Note that even in subclass's constructor if we do not call super(), complier will automatically add it and call the constructor of the super class first. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Super_program.java) with real use of super class constructor. Also note that if we use arguments in constructor in parent class, then while calling Super() in subclass, we should call it using the arguments provided in the super class constructor. For instance, in the previous example it is <code> Super(id, name); </code>. When we invoke parameterized constructor explicitly, default constructor will not be invoked. Learning Super keyword was quite challenging because of its usage in different situations such as parent class method, parent class constructor and super constructor call. However, I was able to overcome these challenges by practicing appropriate programs.

## Instanceof() ##
 
  Every class is going to have a super class called ***object***. Instanceof() checks whether the object is of a particular class/Interface type. 
 Syntax:
  <code>
  (object reference variable) instanceof(class/Interface type)
  </code>
  
  We can also use <code> (object reference variable) instanceof(object) </code> because every class will have a super class by default called Object.
  
  
 ## Aggregation(Has-A) ##
 
 Aggregation is used when there is no  ***is a*** relationship between classes. For instance, Bike <ins> is a </ins> vehicle but Employee <ins> is a </ins> address is not appropriate. This is where we use ***Aggregation***. In this case, the relationship is **Has-A**. For instance, Employee <ins> Has-A </ins> address. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Aggregation.java) for Aggregation.
 
## Method Overriding(Polymorphism) ##

Declaring a name in the subclass with a name that has already been used in the superclass is called Method Overriding. In simple words, same method name in Superclass and Subclass. Method overriding involves creating a new version of a method that already exists in a super class, in order to customize its behavior in a child class. This allows for more specific and tailored functionality in the child class. Here is a simple [example program](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/MethodOverriding.java) of Method Overriding. In this example, move() in Dog class will be called by the JVM. This is known as **Dynamic Method Dispatch**

### Rules for Overriding ###
 
* The argumet list of both the methods should be same.
* The access modifier in subclass should have a bigger scope than the access modifier in superclass.
* Private, Static and final methods cannot be overridden.

The main difference between Method Overloading and Method Overriding is that with Method Overloading, the appropriate method to call can be determined by examining the parameters passed to the method, whereas with Method Overriding, the appropriate method to call is determined by the specific object instance in which the function is defined.. Here is an [example program](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/OverloadingOverriding.java) with Method Overloading and Method Overriding. 

 
  
  
  
