---
title: "sixth week preparation"
date: 2023-03-09
---
During the sixth week of my Java preparation, I delved into topics such as Abstraction and Interface, exploring their functions, and implementation within the language.

# ABSTRACTION #
  Abstraction is the process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user. Abstraction is achieved by using ***Abstract class and Interface***.
  
Syntax:
<code> abstract class className{
  //
  }
</code>

If a method is declared as abstract in Java, it is necessary to also declare the class as abstract.However, an abstract class need not be 100% abstract, it can have other methods with implementations too. Also, Objects cannot be created for abstact class because they are incomplete and has no body. Note that if there is a constructor in abstract class, we cannot call it directly because we cannot create an Object for abstract class, so in subclass's constructor, first line should be **Super();** to call parent's class constructor. Here is an [example](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Abstraction.java) of abstraction in Java.

# Interface #
  An abstract class need not provide 100% abstraction but Interface provides 100% abstraction (only methods). An Interface is the blueprint of a class. It has static constants and abstract methods. When creating an Interface, the class that implements it must provide the method implementations. By doing so, when an object of the class is instantiated, it inherits all the functionalities of the abstract methods defined in the Interface. Here is a simple [example of Interface](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/Interface.java). Interface is used to achieve abstraction and with the concept of Interface we can achieve Multiple Inheritance. Here is an example of [Multiple Inheritance using Interface](https://github.com/jaswanthkasani/LearningBlog/blob/main/program/MH_Interface.java) in java. Even if we use the same method name in two different interfaces, there will not be any error because the method body will only be provided once in the implementing class. 
  
Throughout this week, I did not face any challenges in comprehending the concepts, as they were fairly easy to grasp. With the help of example programs, I was able to gain a clear understanding of the topics.
